---
modified_date: 2025-11-03
layout: post
title: "what I'm doing now #9"
permalink: /now-9
tags: journal
redirect_from: ['/now-feb-1-2025']
---

Biking around East Vancouver, reading _The Ginger Man_, finding Z a new apartment, and trying to become a planner.
<!--more-->

### biking around East Vancouver

Biking is a great way to achieve my daily goal of exercising.
Seattle is prohibitively hilly but Vancouver has a great network of bike routes allocated on streets with sparse car traffic.
They have a detailed PDF file available online that maps their location and marks them with useful information like incline and degree of separation from car traffic.
I came up with a great acronym to remember the street names of the main bike routes in the area: W.A.L.K.

### reading _The Ginger Man_

I bought a copy last summer and finally started it last week.
I can see why Cormac McCarthy liked it.
It also reminds me a lot of _Fear and Loathing in Last Vegas_.
After finishing the seventh chapter I sat down and wrote an {% vbook_post initial review | 2025-01-28-the-ginger-man %} of it.

### finding Z a new apartment

Z's apartment in Vancouver is a spacious one bedroom with a generous balcony.
It is recently renovated with tons of integrated storage but it lacks a crucial feature: a second bedroom.
I spend a lot of time at Z's place and when I do we often both work from home.
We have comfortable workstations at opposite corners of the living room but the distance does little when one of us actively participates in a virtual meeting.
Noisecancelling headphones help but they also encourage us to speak loudly.
And even when we both work silently it's too easy to call out across the room to ask a question, share a thought, or make a comment.
Both of us have a habit of voicing things soon after they occur to us.
It makes for interesting conversation and for a disruptive work environment.

We've been keeping an eye out and finally we found a good two bedroom apartment in a lively, artsy part of East Vancouver.
It costs almost the same as Z's current place and it offers great physical separation between the two bedrooms.
We will be sad to leave Z's current place and the neighborhood it's in, but we're excited for the new chapter.

### trying to become a planner

I don't mean a city planner.
Although I do fantasize about getting involved with municipal politics someday.
I mean a life planner.
I want to get better at making plans and adhering to them.
I get a lot of stuff done in my life through what I call {% vbook_post coherent impulses | 2023-01-28-progress-without-planning %}, which have proved effective but lack certain special powers particular to planning.
I've been ruminating on it and noticing when people make reference to it in their way of working.

In his podcast [_Approachable Music_](https://open.spotify.com/show/2d0fpifQoLn230QaGjrW7w?si=c4dc3ff353e74c77) podcast Kiefer mentioned he keeps a to-do list and everyday he attends to one item at a time.
I assume many people follow this approach.
But I don't.
I keep to-do lists but my adherence to them is erratic.
I suppose part of the problem is that many items have no inherent deadline and even those that do don't threaten much consequence.
If I for example neglect to plan an itinerary for a trip, I can still show up and improvise as long as my flights and hotel are booked.
That's what I did in 2019 when I went on my multimonth trip abroad to Mexico, New York, and Europe.
And I enjoyed the fruits of spontaneity and just-in-time internet searches, but without a doubt I missed out on experiences that research and forethought would've produced.
I want to reduce these kinds of losses by procrastinating less and planning more often.
I want to change my habit.
So I'm trying to consciously draw my attention to the benefits of planning and override the anxious avoidance that thwarts my planning impulses.

Jared Henderson, a former professor who is now a literary YouTuber, [mentioned](https://youtu.be/5rrJ6RReYnA?si=sHhJhHoCTYPCjJfk) that he keeps a list of books he will read.
I don't.
I keep track of books that I might want to read by saving them [on Goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com/review/list/57048915), but I never reference that list when deciding which book to read next.
My methods are spontaneous and informally organized.
I try out audiobooks on Spotify and Libby and continue only if they stick.
I buy books impulsively and add them to my growing library of unreads.
When I am ready to start a new book I eye my collection shiftily and grab the candidates my whims command me to and then I bring them to a comfortable seat in my apartment where I select one uneasily and crack it open.
Then I read stingily, hesitant to imply by reading more than a couple paragraphs that I've now committed to My Next Book, that this is it, I must read this book through now or else I will have {% vbook_post left one unfinished | 2020-01-12-ditch-books %}.

I'm trying something new.
I'm writing a list of books I intend to read this year.
In a way, my dabbling with planning in this way is a sort of coherent impulse.
The coherence comes from the deliberate intention to exploit the benefits of forethought and the impulse is the list of fifteen or so books I slashed out based on my current interest and appetite as well as the current contents of my shelves.
The list is unordered so I may choose to read them in any order I like and read multiple at the same time if I so wish.
I will still entertain my penchant for sampling books impulsively via Spotify and Libby, but my main reading project this year will be dictated by my list.

---

### what's next?

Keep biking.
Continue striving to do every day each of the following: work, read, exercise, write, enjoy, grow, discuss, plan, and socialize

Finalize Z's moving plans.

Go snowboarding with Z multiple times.

Read the rest of _The Ginger Man_ to keep up a good reading pace for the year.
After I finish it I will start _Malone Dies_ unless it doesn't {% vbook_post suit my appetite | 2023-01-28-progress-without-planning %}, in which case I will pick up one of the other books on my list for 2025.