---
modified_date: 2025-12-22
layout: post
title: "what I'm doing now #18"
permalink: /now-18
tags: journal lists
excerpt: Visiting the Yucatan Peninsula & working on this site.
redirect_from: ['/now']
---

<!--more-->

### vacationing in the Yucatan Peninsula

I'm in Mexico with my wife Z, my mom, and my younger sister D.
We're visiting a few places {% vbook_post in the Yucatan Peninsula | 2025-12-16-yucatan %}.
It's beautiful and warm here.
Tourism seems to be by far the largest industry in this region.
It's not surprising but it is saddening to think that people's livelihood relies so heavily on it.
Everywhere we've gone we've been told that 2025 has been a bad year.

### working on this site

Idle time at hotels and on the train have given me ample opportunity to think and to write.
I'm glad to have ended my writing dryspell of several weeks.
Beyond that, I'm excited about a new idea I have for reworking a fundamental aspect of this site.
The idea is to generalize the format I created for my piece {% vbook_post _kinds of books_ | 2025-05-18-kinds-of-books %} so that it can be used by other pieces.
Today, I applied the format to a second piece, {% vbook_post _2025 in retrospect_ | 2025-12-15-2025-retro %}.

I'm calling this format _stacks_.
The basic idea is to format prose within a single piece into multiple separate lines of thought instead of a single linear flow.
Because the reader must click on a stack to see the prose it contains, it allows their curiosity to dictate what they read, to pursue instead of following.
This pattern abides by the **nonlinear** and **readerdriven** attributes of my "{% vbook_post virtual book | 2023-08-11-virtual-book %}" idea.
(In fact, that piece would likely benefit from being reformatted into _stacks_.
I think the same for {% vbook_post _bookmarks_ | 2023-11-15-bookmarks %} and {% vbook_post _what is this site? #5_ | 2025-03-05-features-on-this-site %}.)
It excites me because it's a simple way to explore and experiment with my ideas regarding nontraditional mediums for reading and writing.

### coming up with ideas

Gazing out over the Lagoon of Bacalar, listening to palm trees sway in the tropical breeze, my mind turns over projects I might work on.
Starting a free futsal league in my neighborhood.
Starting a YouTube channel to analyze movies like _The Mask_ for its latent ideology and unconscious messaging.
Starting a Twitch stream or a YouTube channel or a podcast to discuss and inform Vancouverites on the upcoming city election.
Researching and writing a virtual book recounting the stories of my maternal family lineage and contemplating my Mexican identity.