---
modified_date: 2025-03-09
layout: post
title: "what I'm doing now #10"
permalink: /now-mar-8-2025
tags: journal
redirect_from: ['/now']
---

Thinking of sentences, reading _Pachinko_ and _The Dominant Animal_, watching _Severance_ and _The White Lotus_.
<!--more-->

### thinking of sentences

Two years after {% vbook_post reading about it | 2023-02-25-several-short-sentences %}, I'm finally doing Verlyn Klinkenborg's writing exercise of mentally formulating sentences without writing them down.
I find myself doing it habitually, out of interest.
In the shower while I think over the week's events.
Standing on the balcony in the quiet of morning and watching a neighbor walk their dog over snowy pavement.
One word at a time I lay out a sentence in my head, pruning clutter, swapping out imprecisions, and toying with the order of clauses.
I expect it will make me a better writer.
A lovely surprise was noticing it {% vbook_post making me more present | 2025-03-08-live-in-the-moment-2 %}.

### reading _Pachinko_ and _The Dominant Animal_

After finishing {% vbook_post The Ginger Man | 2025-01-28-the-ginger-man %}, I felt ready to dive into a novel by James Joyce.
But none of his books are on my list of books to read for 2025 and I'm trying to get better at adhering to plans, so instead I started _Pachinko_ by Min Jin Lee.
The writing style is plainer but still pleasant to read.
It's built on fundamental physical imagery like "sharp winds" and warm floors and listed descriptions of each person's appearance.
The story spans generations but the pace of each scene is slow and patient.
It gives me feelings similar to those I get reading Steinbeck and Wendell Berry's fiction.

I also just finished _The Dominant Animal_ by Kathryn Scanlan, a book of short stories that I've been reading very slowly for the last couple of years.
It is, in a nutshell, a book about abuse inflicted by men, mostly against women and often violent.
It speaks from the perspective of the victims in a tone conflicted with despair, disociation, and tortured resilience.
Victims as protagonists endure and survive in the face of brutality, but there is no sense of victory or hope.
There seems to be heartening message or moral of sort, just the observation that unchecked narcissism and cruelty abound in men of our world.
All this compacted into tiny tales of everyday predation and the consequent dissociation of those preyed upon, written in unique yet accessible prose assiduously trimmed, pruned, and polished.

As described in the New Yorker:
> In all her books, Scanlan writes about ordinary life in extraordinary ways by compacting it radically, like pressurizing carbon into diamonds."

Scanlan continued this practice in novel form with {% vbook_post _Kick the Latch_ | 2022-11-27-kick-the-latch %}, which came out two years later, in 2022.
For me, she is one of the most exciting prose writers working today.

### watching _Severance_ and _The White Lotus_

I watched the first few episodes of _Severance_ months ago but then lost interest.
But now season two is coming out and many of my friends are talking about it so I resolved to catch up.
Watching it again, I feel again underwhelmed.
The premise and the set are both really interesting, but for so long I'm just waiting for something to happen.
The pacing feels unreasonably slow.
By the end of the season, the reason is clear.
The writers have been sitting on some highgrade, plotpromising bombshells.
And when they finally drop them, you _have_ to keep watching.

I don't like this way of writing fiction.
I much prefer the approach that the writers of _The White Lotus_ follow.
Instead of hinting cryptically at forthcoming drama and withholding it for several episodes, they start with a cast of characters with tensions already between and within them.
The potential is there from the beginning.
Throughout the season they build up the existing tensions and introduce new ones until eventually someone takes action or an incident triggers a chain of reactions.
Drama and plot flow naturally from interpersonal dynamics instead of dictating them.

_Severance_ feels designed and implemented from the top down.
_The White Lotus_ feels {% vbook_post incubated and organic | 2024-08-12-tell-a-story-3 %}.