---
modified_date: 2025-07-11
layout: post
title: "what I am doing now #12"
permalink: /now-12
tags: journal
redirect_from: ['/now']
---

Plant tending and goaltending.
<!--more-->

### enjoying my plants

Plant care for me is more chore than hobby, I am {% vbook_post tempted to say | 2025-06-09-use-restraint-2 %}.
But upon reflection in a better mood I notice that in the process of caring for my plants I experience many little moments of satisfaction and even awe.
One of my favorite things is noticing how my plants respond to my fulfilling their needs.
The day after I water them I see their perkiness restored and the firmness of their leaves replenished.
One day they sag helplessly, the next their posture rights as if with pride.
New offshoots appear and bud slowly until one day they are leaves fully unfurled.
With the enthusiasm some take water, others respond to the sun.
A wellwatered but withering plant moved to a brighter area suddenly sports a new sheen.

### goalkeeping

{% vbook_post One year ago | 2024-07-07-now %} my interest in goalkeeping resurfaced.
I looked around for opportunities to play and considered even joining a new team exclusively as keeper.
But then in my first casual stint between the posts {% vbook_post I broke my finger | 2024-09-30-now %}.
I still can't fit my wedding band onto it, but it has long since recovered enough to allow my return to goalkeeping.
I feel like a kid again, diving left and right at shots my friends take from outside the box.

Part of the fun is trying to apply the techniques I see professional keepers use.
Their footwork I find hardest to emulate.
I suppose I am not fleetfooted in the outfield so it's no surprise I am not a quick stepper as goaltender either.
It's a crucial skill though.
It expands a goalie's reach by bringing within diving distance the edges of the goal.

In games, however, making saves is not so much a matter of diving heroically to stop a well placed shot.
It's more so about forcing the opposition to place their shot well in order to score.
The primary task is to position yourself between your goal and the oncoming attackers to minimize their viable angles for scoring.
It's an act of constant calibration that depends on how far away the attacker is and from what direction they are coming.

A common mistake I see made by goalkeepers in our rec league is that they stay near their goal line instead of approaching a shooter who is about to fire from a close distance.
The closer a shooter gets to the goal, the easier it is for them to score.
But when a shooter reaches a certain proximity to the goal, the goalie can make himself bigger by rushing towards the ball.
It's a neat trick of geometry.
By shortening his distance to the ball, the goalie increases the number of shooting angles they cover.
As the goalie approaches, the shooter's target shrinks.