---
modified_date: 2025-04-18
layout: post
title: "writing <i>what I am doing in 2025</i>"
permalink: /writing-2025
tags: journal writing
---

My live journal {% vbook_post _what I am doing in 2025_ | 2025-01-18-my-2025 %} is yet another experiment inspired by the ideas I originally explored in my essay [_The Virtual Book_](https://okjuan.medium.com/the-virtual-book-part-1-782ccd4cc360).
<!--more-->
One of the attributes of "{% vbook_post virtual books | 2023-08-11-virtual-book %}" that most intrigues me is their **dynamism**, the fact that they can change over time.
It excites me not only for its practicality, but for the artistic possibilities it enables.
As I wrote originally in _The Virtual Book_ and then reproduced in {% vbook_post one | 2022-06-11-show-instead-of-telling %} of its separated pieces on this site:

> What if a memoirist publishes a piece overlaid with their revisions to show the process of expression and expose the artifice of memoir?
> Or what if an English professor does the same to compare writing styles and the emotions they convey?
> What if a novelist publishes a first-person novel in real time to make it feel like the character really exists and is experiencing events alongside the reader?
> What if the author then goes back and rewrites previous parts of the novel to show the decay of memory and its corruption in the construction of personal narratives?

In this journal I intend to do something like the hypothetical memoirist.
Throughout the year, whenever I feel so inclined, I will write here about events that might happen, are happening, or have happened in 2025.
I think it will be interesting to juxtapose my expectations, experiences, and reflections throughout the year.
I hope it will neutralize the bias we typically grant hindsight, which is a privileged perspective but not a consummate one.