---
modified_date: 2025-11-02
layout: post
title: "what I'm doing now #16"
permalink: /now-16
tags: journal
redirect_from: ['/now']
---

Gearing down.
<!--more-->

### gearing down

I find myself coming down a wave of energy, waning in my motivation for work after a multiweek surge to solve various technical challenges.
I have learned a lot and shed insight into heretofore unknown problems in our system, but I still haven't solved the main problem.
Week after week I resumed work with appetite and drive, but now I feel a bit deflated and tired.

I am consciously riding this ebb in energy without panicking or chastising myself because I know it's part of my natural rhythm.
In the past I've responded with worry and guilt, which have only drained me further.
This time I'm trying to adapt to it instead of resisting or rejecting it.

Instead of responding reactively by hounding myself to keep up the pace or reacting avoidantly by procrastinating work in general, I am trying to respond with composure.
I am allowing the intensity of my workrate to subside without letting it stall.
To do so I am allowing myself the small periods of rest as I need them so that I can continue making incremental progress without overdrawing from my energy reserves.
I am letting my mind wander and indulging my curiosity so that motion can result naturally from unforced motivation.

Maybe I'll {% vbook_post start a nonprofit futsal league | 2025-09-23-come-up-with-ideas %} in my neighborhood.
Or not.
I don't have to.
Regardless, such daydreams generate a mild excitement that serves as cheap fuel to carry me forward and prevent my stagnation.
Better to maintain modest momentum than let things come to standstill until I can muster a jolt to start again.
