---
modified_date: 2025-11-03
layout: post
title: "how to be still"
permalink: /stillness
tags: journal mindfulness quiet
---

One of my favorite things to do right now is to take a hot, silent shower and put on the vintage [cotton bathrobe](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yukata) I recently bought {% vbook_post in Japan | 2024-12-26-japan-trip %}.
<!--more-->
I move slowly around the apartment and touch things lightly as if trying not to wake someone up.
The calm I feel is exquisite.

It's strangely soothing to say nothing for a time.
Z and I sometimes do this in the car without prior agreement.
The longer we go without saying anything, the more peaceful we feel.
I think it's possible outside of regimented meditation to reap some of its benefits by foregoing habitual self-stimulation like chatting and listening to music to make space for felt moments of clarity.
In modern life we routinely cover up the mysteriously powerful sensations our bodies are capable of generating when idle and we therefore miss out on the cathartic experience of allowing those sensations to come to the front of our awareness.

In retrospect this is something I've been learning to do over the last few years.
In 2020 I started going on runs through my neighborhood in Capitol Hill, Seattle and instead of listening to music I listened to the sound of my body striding over the concrete.
I revelled in the unusually quiet streets of the early Covid pandemic and the unexpectedly sunny spring of that strange year.
Birds, breeze, chatter, and from balconies the clapping of hands and ringing of bells to thank the work medical professionals were doing across the globe.