---
modified_date: 2025-11-02
layout: post
title: ideas for this site
permalink: /ideas-for-this
tags: lists software design
---

I am constantly thinking of things I could add to this site.
Here are a few.
<!--more-->

### #lists

To [#essays]({{site.baseurl}}/tags/essays), [#notes]({{site.baseurl}}/tags/notes), [#journal]({{site.baseurl}}/tags/journal), [#reviews]({{site.baseurl}}/tags/reviews), and [#poetry]({{site.baseurl}}/tags/poetry) I want to add #lists for posts like {% vbook_post _concerts_ | 2024-02-25-concerts-log %}.
Other ideas for lists include: my favorite albums, books I've read, trips I've taken, and even posts like this one, which is a list of things I want to add to this site.
I could even automatically generate a list of posts in a series e.g. _what I'm doing now_, _what I'm doing now #2_, etc.

Eventually I could create a list list.
A list of all my lists.
How pleasing.
Humor aside, this pattern would actually create an interesting way to navigate the site's contents while maintaining posts as the fundamental unit.
It occurs to me that the master list of posts and the lists of posts tagged with a certain #tag could even be shown using this list pattern.
But maybe that would be taking it too far.

### support for referencing a section of a post

I want to support anchor links.
That is, links that take you to a specific section of a post.
The sophisticated version of this would allow me to embed snippets of one post in another.
It could use the same visual element as a hoverbox preview of a post, which I {% vbook_post already support | 2025-03-05-features-on-this-site %} for post links.
This would be in the spirit of the **non-monolithic** attribute of {% vbook_post virtual books | 2023-08-11-virtual-book %}.
(In this paragraph alone there are multiple examples of cases where I could've added a link to section of a post instead of the entire post itself.)

### other ideas

I also use [GitHub Issues](https://github.com/okjuan/vbook/issues) to track problems and ideas.
