---
modified_date: 2025-10-28
layout: post
title: "what I am doing in 2026"
permalink: /2026
tags: journal
---

This piece is a {% vbook_post second | 2025-01-18-my-2025 %} experiment in {% vbook_post live journaling | 2025-01-18-writing-my-2025 %}.
<!--more-->

### January

### February

_October 28 2025_ –
Microsoft expects all employees living within a fifty mile radius of the headquarters in Redmond to be present in office an average of three days per week.
The new rule was announced in September 2024 and it takes effect at the end of February.
And so tens of thousands of employees will begin commuting to campus to do the job they've been doing at home for the last six years.

### March

_October 28 2025_ –
March will mark four years since I transferred from Excel to Loop.

### April

### May

### June

_October 28 2025_ –
Soon after June begins, the World Cup will begin as well.
The first in the Americas in my lifetime.
I don't have a bucket list but if I did, Attend the World Cup would certainly be on it.

### July

### August

_October 28 2025_ –
Z is preparing applications for graduate programs at universities across Canada.
Depending on where she is accepted, August will likely be our month for settling into a new home.
It will also be the month I turn thirty.
I don't feel anxiety about it, at least not yet.
We'll see how I feel as the date approaches.
I'm in good shape for it though, I think.
Married, gainfully employed, established in my career, financially secure, spending time on things I care about.
I am as I probably should be – satisfied with my life's yield, enjoying the fruits of my university labors.
I was greatly privileged by the opportunities afforded me and I took them.
While I was in school and for years thereafter I saw Computer Science degrees as a surefire catapult into stable and lucrative employment.
Hell, for me it served as runway for easy immigration into the USA.
It is only in retrospect that I appreciate that even the timing of my graduation in 2019 was fortunate.
It was a sellers market.
Even people with minimal education and experience in programming were getting job offers.
It was a gold rush.
It peaked in 2021 and since then it has been correcting.
In wave after wave thousands upon thousands of employees have been laid off over the last few years not by failing startups but by huge and enormously profitable tech companies.
I transferred within Microsoft from Excel to Loop in March of '23.
Loop was recruiting openly within the Office organization and all management levels above me were promoting "talent mobility."
Layoffs had begun happening at Microsoft and in the industry at large, but it felt like a distant threat.
And yet one of my fellow engineers at Excel passed up the opportunity to join Loop because he feared that new recruits would be likely targets if layoffs continued.
I figured he didn't have much to worry about.
Two years later, however, layoffs did reach us.
But the affected employees turned out to be those with _most_ years of service at Microsoft.

### September

_October 28 2025_ –
If by September I continue working at Microsoft I will complete seven years of work there, and nearly two as a senior engineer.

### October

_October 28 2025_ –
Again next year I will organize spooky movie viewings at home with friends.
I'm not big into Halloween or anything but I love movies and it feels nice to let the season influence my activities.
The rain and the cold and the dark of fall ushers us into the soft warmth of living rooms to spend time in restful company of friends and loved ones.
When it comes to picking a spooky movie, it doesn't matter to me that it adhere to the theme of Halloween.
To me it matters much more that it is first of all a good movie and secondly that it creates a moody, eerie atmosphere.
Some friends of mine are sticklers for a theme.
Last October (2024) they put on some Halloween-y music and I queued _Brujas_ by Princess Nokia because it means _Witches_ in Spanish and because it has a dark, moody vibe.
They were bewildered – _who put on hip hop?_
They restored order by skipping to _Monster Mash_.
Then they followed up with some spooky sounds like Chains Rattling and Wolf Howling and stuff like that.
I don't know, for me, the point is to to set an enjoyable mood with enjoyable music.
Who cares how many lateral steps you take?
In [my Halloween playlist](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/2m7AVWn6qXUx2y7Ek6BIFd?si=611ba661a9d14a9b) I take several to round up good tracks like _Scared Money_ by NxWorries and _Time of the Season_ by The Zombies.
I'll admit it's a pretty crude mix still.
But I've forgotten to work on it for the last several Halloweens.
Maybe next year.

### November

### December

_October 28 2025_ –
If our trip to the Yucatan peninsula in December of 2025 goes well, we will likely want to get away to somewhere warm again.
It might be a good opportunity to visit my family that lives in Honduras.