---
modified_date: 2025-06-08
layout: post
title: "what I'm doing now #11"
permalink: /now-11
tags: journal
redirect_from: ['/now', '/now-june-1-2025']
---

Helping my self.
<!--more-->

### helping my self

The last couple months have been, at times, brutally stressful for me.
Issues of immigration and taxes have racked my mind and my body as well.
My eczema flared to the worst it has been in years.
Compulsive worrying postponed my sleep.

Playing soccer was a rare thing that relieved me of the heaviness of reality for good periods of time.
It is truly one of the joys of my life.
Contemplating it, my awe only grows as I notice all the things it gives me.
An opportunity to exercise and to play.
A healthy distraction from all my worries.
A way to commune with friends and strangers, out in nature.
All at the low low price of zero dollars.
On an ordinary day, it's a beloved hobby.
In times of struggle, it's like sustenance.

But soccer didn't solve my problems.
I still had to do that.
And the most difficult part of that was stomaching the uncertainty and unpredictability of it all.
Along the way, I vented to friends and loved ones about my doubts and fears, but paramount to my emotional regulation during this turbulent period was a middleaged British journalist named Oliver Burkeman via his audiobook {% vbook_post _Meditations for Mortals_ | 2025-06-01-meditations-for-mortals %}.
In a stoic yet cheerfully amused tone, his disembodied voice eased me out of my ceaseless fretting.
After I finished the book I began it again, eager for more of the reassurance his virtual presence gave me.
But it wasn't just the tempering effect of Burkeman's tone or the snappiness of his writing that alleviated my stress.
It was his shrewd insight on life's problems and the exceedingly realistic stances he took on them.
I don't care what people may say about Self Help.
It helps.
