---
modified_date: 2025-09-23
layout: post
title: "what I'm doing now #15"
permalink: /now-15
tags: journal
---

Doing laundry, swapping chores, and reformulating "attention ecologies."
<!--more-->

### doing laundry

At the Catholic high school I attended there was a family of six children whose mother was a devout Christian and would bless each one of them as she folded their clean laundry.
I am not religious, but do find that {% vbook_post doing laundry is like a ritual | 2025-09-10-think-with-your-body %}.

### swapping chores

When I am a parent perhaps the responsibility of family laundry will fall on me.
The ideal way to divvy up chores is to assign each to whomever is naturally motivated to do them.
Recently I took up the responsibility of filling the dishwasher because piles of dirty dishes bothered me so much.
When it was Z's responsibility, I would fret about when it would get done.
Not because she procastinated excessively but because I had little control over it.
The reverse was true about vacuuming the apartment.
Z would stress about the dust and hairs settling along the walls of our apartment and periodically she would complain that I didn't vacuum enough.
Finally I realized how foolish we were being and we swapped chores.

### reformulating "attention ecologies"

While hanging up my laundry, I finally found a crisper way of thinking about {% vbook_post ecologies of attention | 2024-12-15-ecologies-of-attention %} and how they work.
We consider our character and our attitude to be determinants of our behavior and overlook the influence of our physical and cultural environments.
Environments matter because they dictate what we perceive, what and whom we interact with, and how we interact.
Through those means they influence what we pay attention to and by extension what we care about.
There is a loop here involving perception, attention, interaction, and values.
See {% vbook_post _how to think with your body #2_ | 2025-09-10-think-with-your-body %}.