---
modified_date: 2025-12-18
layout: post
title: trip to the Yucatan Peninsula
permalink: /yucatan
tags: journal travel
---

With my mom and younger sister I'm visiting the Yucatan Peninsula for the first time.
<!--more-->
My wife Z is joining us partway through the trip.

#### Monday 12/15/2025 -- Vancouver -> Cancun

- 9:30am flight YVR -> CUN
- listened to albums in Deepcuts Best of 2025
- wrote a bunch for my upcoming 2025 retrospective piece
- late dinner w/ maternal family that is from Cancun

#### Tuesday 12/16/2025 -- Cancun -> Bacalar

- breakfast buffet @ hotel
- cab to Tren Maya station, ride train to Bacalar

I'm impressed by the Tren Maya.
Not by how well it works but by the mere fact it exists.
It's not the kind of thing I would expect to see in Mexico.
Admittedly, it's no bullet train.
From Cancun to Tulum it takes an hour forty, the same travel time by car.
And it only runs a few times per day.
But it only opened last year and it connects the Mexican southeast.
We've mentioned it to servers, cab drivers, desk clerks, but no one we've spoken to has taken it.
On this one today there are a few dozen passengers but what strikes me is the number of workers.

To enter the platform, we show our printed tickets and identification before progressing to automated gates where a lady instructs us to scan our QR code in the typical place at the front of the gate.
It beeps and opens to let us through.
A step past it on the other side another lady motions us forward toward the metal detector a few feet away and tells us to line up on the right side.
Four or five uniformed officers stand at the one metal detector, feeding in bags and baskets into it on the conveyor belt on one side and taking them off on the other side.
Once seated on the train a man comes down the aisle asking for tickets but when I mutter I don't know where I put it he just confirms our destination before continuing down the aisle.
At each station we pass uniformed officers of the _Guardia Nacional_ stand and traipse around while several cleaning ladies sweep and mop already tidylooking floors.