---
modified_date: 2025-11-04
layout: post
title: "what I'm doing now #17"
permalink: /now-17
tags: journal lists
redirect_from: ['/now']
---

Reflecting on the year.
<!--more-->

### reflecting on the year

2025 is the year I

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;got back into golf, a game I learned and loved in childhood.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;fell in love with Vancouver.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;predetermined most of the books I read.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;began believing Arsenal would win the title.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;suffered the stress of tax complications.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;stood up on a surfboard for the first time.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;delved into Vancouver's ongoing city planning.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;visited Ireland for the first time.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;visited England for the first time.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;went to my first Arsenal game, and at the Emirates no less.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;visited Mérida for the first time.

<br />

I began the year with several intentions.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;1. Do big things at work.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;2. Get fitter.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;3. Lose twenty pounds.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;4. Have more discussions with friends.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;5. Read copiously.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;6. Keep writing for and developing this site.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;7. Nurture friendships.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;8. Heal and grow.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;9. Enjoy our DINK status.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;10. Ruminate on longterm plans.

<br />

I'm happy with the progress I made on #1, #4, #6, #7, and #10.
But I didn't really accomplish #2 or #3.

On #5 I did decently.
I read eight of the fourteen books I set out to read.
On top of that I read an extra four books and listened to a fifth.
Of the original fourteen I read part of two and {% vbook_post ditched | 2020-01-12-ditch-books %} them.
Every now and then I read articles in the New Yorker.
I definitely feel I have a healthy reading endurance.
The "copious" part of the goal didn't come easily to me.
I read in bouts.
I don't like forcing myself to read when I'm not {% vbook_post in the mood | 2023-11-30-chart-moods %}

I'm not sure how to evaluate my progress on #8 yet.

On #9 Z and I did the basics.
Sleep in.
Play video games.
Golf.
See our friends all the time.
Spend long, quiet weekends lounging and doing as we please.