---
modified_date: 2025-08-19
layout: post
title: "what I'm doing now #13"
permalink: /now-13
tags: journal
redirect_from: ['/now']
---

Reading books, planning travels, playing sports, watching movies & TV, enjoying life, and contemplating a new project.
The usuals!
<!--more-->

### reading _Circe_ and other books

Last night on the bus from Seattle to Vancouver I read the last fifty five pages of {% vbook_post _Circe_ | 2025-08-05-circe %}.
It finished strong, a feat I think more great than starting well.
The start is a place of possibility, an opening.
There are yet so many worthy ways to go.
But at the close, the author can deliver us to one place only.
In ending _Circe_ Miller excelled.

On the side I'm reading _How to Write a Sentence: And How to Read One_ by Stanley Fish.
My friend J recommended it when I texted him (like I did several other friends) two sentences and asked him which he preferred.
I did so to test the ideas I wrote about in {% vbook_post _how to revise a sentence #5_ | 2025-07-11-revise-a-sentence-5 %}, in which I took sentences from _Circe_ and tried to improve them.

I'm also listening to _Is A River Alive?_ by Robert Macfarlane after I heard him speak so eloquently about writing in [this interview](https://youtu.be/rdsE9XqB2bI?si=sQtRneBdN7A-lVA5).
He is the latest addition to the list of writers I admire.

### thriving in islands of time

Bus trips and ferry rides and even international flights have turned out to be times well suited for me to read and write.
They are for me exceptional {% vbook_post ecologies o | 2024-12-15-ecologies-of-attention %}{% vbook_post f attention | 2024-12-22-ecologies-of-attention-2 %}.
I look forward to them now because I know they will produce something fruitful.

### traveling {% vbook_post to Ireland | 2025-08-07-ireland-trip %} and {% vbook_post to England | 2025-08-07-england-trip %}

I hope to spend a good deal of time reading and writing while traveling to Dublin, to Bristol, to London, and then back to Vancouver.
We leave tomorrow, to explore the Irish countryside and the urban hubs of England.
I'm thrilled to say we got tickets to Arsenal's first home match of the new English Premier League season.
If I had a bucket list, attending a competitive game at the Emirates would be on it.
And by the end of this month, that item would be checked off.

### enjoying the summer

I've unfortunately only paddleboarded once this summer but I've played plenty of soccer and golf, even a game of tennis.
I somewhat regret that we will travel most of August, it'll eat up so much of the warm and sunny weather we get in our corner of the world.

### planning a Xmas trip to Mexico

In December we will escape the dull grey PNW for lovely, sunny Yucatan.
I've never been yet and I'm so excited to go.

### watching _Curb Your Enthusiasm_ and _Portlandia_

Z likes to compare me to Larry.
Like when he declined to roll up his long sleeve so that the dentist could give him a shot because he didn't want to ruin the elasticity of the cuff.
She's right, I agree with Larry.

It had been years since I'd watched _Portlandia_.
But I've been thinking about it recently.
More than ten years ago the show stoked in me an interest in cities like Portland that has grown into my enthusiasm today for good urbanism.

### watching _Dogtooth_ and thinking still about _Severance_

The first movie Z names when she gets into a conversation about indie or arthouse films is _Dogtooth_ by Yorgos Lanthimos.
I finally watched it and it reminded me of the show _Severance_, which I think {% vbook_post fails | 2025-03-08-severance %} where _Dogtooth_ succeeds.
I've made the comparison to a few people and they've surprised me with their puzzlement.
I suppose it's not an intuitive matchup, or at least not an obvious one.
But I think their premises are similar in meaningful ways.

### thinking of starting a new writing project

Z suggested to me a few weeks ago that I write on Substack to engage with readers.
She knows I love to share what I write and discuss it because I do it with her all the time.
Often on our dates I give her my phone with the browser open to my latest piece and she reads it in silence in front of me.
When she _Hmms_ and nods I say _What?_
I want to know what made her react and what the reaction is.

What I write on this site concerns many topics and takes various forms — blog, journal, essay, app, notes.
It's hard to imagine strangers subscribing.
To attract and maintain the interest of an anonymous public however small I figure I'd have to offer a coherent and focused stream of content.

What if I write about [Arsenal](https://www.arsenal.com/)?
Like other fans I spend a good deal of my time and energy thinking, talking, even analyzing the activity of this football club.
There are of course already many Arsenal content creators making videos and podcasts.
But how many people are writing?
Maybe no one wants to read about it.
But reading about their favorite football club may in fact serve as good runway for men who want to read more but haven't gotten the habit going.
