---
modified_date: 2026-07-09
layout: post
title: trip to Montreal
permalink: /montreal-2
tags: journal travel
---

My wife Z and I are visiting our friends Ev & Vi for nine days.
<!--more-->
{% vbook_post So often | 2026-07-09-montreal %} I find myself in Montreal when there's a World Cup going on.

#### Friday 07/10/2026 -- Vancouver &#8594; Montreal

I'm missing the Spain vs Belgium quarterfinal!
Hopefully it will be boring.

- get Lyft to YVR, breakfast, free upgrade, takeoff @ 12pm
- read 1st chapter of _Three Daughters of Eve_ by Elif Shafak
- read five short stories by Shirley Jackson
- get picked up by Ev @ new Mtl airport
- eat dinner @ Ev & Vi's apt w/ Ev
- walk east along St Denis, pop into Champs w/ Ev
- drinks @ Big in Japan w/ Ev

#### Saturday 07/11/2026 -- Montreal

- slept in w/ Z
- had coffee, started reading _Investigations of a Dog_ by Kafka, & read Prologue of _Secrets_(?) by Donna Tart
- brunch @ Bar Sparrow w/ Z & Ev
- solo coffee @ Cafe Eclair
- solo bike to Bar L'Barouf to meet my friend Hi for the World Cup match but he wasn't there and it was full
- sit at the bar of small Bar Le Pastel to watch England vs Norway, Vi joined me
- get chicken sandwiches from Portugalia & meet Z, Ev, Vi, & Vi's friends @ Bar Frappe for Switzerland vs Argentina
- left w/ Z @ halftime to rest @ Ev & Vi's apt and watch rest of the game

Norway plays England and Argentina plays Switzerland.
How far could Haaland take Norway?
Will this World Cup inscribe Kane into England's football lore or will Bellingham overshadow him?
Will Messi keep scoring?
What the hell are Switzerland doing in the quarterfinals?

#### Sunday 07/12/2026 -- Montreal

- coffee & breakfast @ Ev & Vi's apt
- drive to Verdun, play volleyball w/ Ev's friends
- swim @ free outdoor public pool
- walk on pedestrian zone in Verdun town centre
- coffee from Cafe Oli(?) & lunch from Falafel(?)
- attended Toronto Tempo vs NY WNBA game @ Bell Centre
- bike back to Ev & Vi's apt & chill
- solo bike along St Denis, north up past south edge of Parc la Fontaine, then through residential streets
- lay & drowse on picnic bench looking up into trees in quiet corner of Parc des Compagnons-de-Saint-Laurent
- walk to pedestrianized Ave Mont-Royal then bike north a bit & then all the way back south to Ev & Vi's apt
- pick up beer at Maxi
- eat homemade dinner @ Ev & Vi's apt w/ the group
- smash & eat [traditional chocolate cauldron](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/L%27Escalade) that Vi brought from back home in Geneva
- watch a chunk of _Indiana Jones & the Temple of Doom_ w/ Vince

#### Monday 07/13/2026 -- Montreal

- slept in while Z & Ev hiked Mont Royal
- had coffee, updated my World Cup Fantasy team, & continued reading _Investigations of a Dog_ by Kafka
- biked w/ Z down to Old Port
- brunch @ Tommy Cafe
- visited Museum of Archaelogy @ Pointe-à-Callière

#### Tuesday 07/14/2026 -- Montreal

The first semifinal!
France versus Belgium or, most likely, Spain.

#### Wednesday 07/15/2026 -- Montreal

The second semifinal:
Most likely, Argentina vs England.

#### Thursday 07/16/2026 -- Montreal

#### Friday 07/17/2026 -- Montreal

#### Saturday 07/18/2026 -- Montreal

#### Sunday 07/19/2026 -- Montreal &#8594; Vancouver

Foolishly, I booked our return flight on the day of the World Cup final.
The game is supposed to end one hour and twenty minutes before our departure time.
I'm consider going to the airport early to watch the whole game there.
Otherwise I will have to watch it elsewhere and hurry to the airport afterwards.
If the game is tied after ninety minutes there'll be another half hour of play and if it is still tied, penalties.
In that case, they'll be happening while we board the plane.
I hope I don't miss anything special and I regret not being able to watch the game with my friends at home.