---
modified_date: 2026-04-15
layout: post
title: "what I'm doing now #25"
permalink: /now-25
tags: journal
redirect_from: ['/now']
---

<!--more-->

### moving

Z and I moved to our new condo!
Settling in.
For several days we suffered from intense allergies.
It's the sort I get when I travel.
My nose is like a cat, shaken by change in environment.

### moving along

I'm surprised to see in my last update from thirty days ago that I was "slipping into listlessness."
I don't feel that way anymore.
I suppose I rode the next wave up.
At work, I finally finished a tedious few tasks assigned to me and restored my attention on the big exciting feature I've been working on for several months.
It was also a calm few weeks because my manager was on vacation and I didn't need to keep her updated or think about what she might be waiting for me to do.

### finishing _The Wire_

The night before we moved, I watched the last episode of _The Wire_.
Fantastic show.
One of the best.
Since then, I've been listening to interviews with creator David Simon and others involved in making the show.
I discovered a podcast called _The Wire At 20_ was made in 2022 for the show's twentieth anniversary.
It's really good, too.

### building a case against my Arsenal fandom

I've decided I want to shift away from being an avid Arsenal fan and prioritize instead my love of football itself.
I have several things to say on the topic.
So far, I've written {% vbook_post one | 2026-03-07-arsenal-trophies %} and {% vbook_post two | 2026-04-12-fandom %} pieces.
