---
modified_date: 2026-05-18
layout: post
title: "what I am doing with my life"
permalink: /life
excerpt: Another live journal, this one the widest in scope.
tags: journal
---

<!--more-->

### 1996 - 2007

_January 5 2026_ –
Living in Mexico City.
Playing sports.
Playing soccer, obsessively.
Wondering if I'll be better than Pelé.

_May 18 2026_ –
Growing up surrounded by family.
Siblings, cousins, aunts and uncles, bound by blood, marriage, and friendship.
Mom and dad, but mostly mom.
A dog eventually, chocolate lab.

### 2007 - 2010

_January 5 2026_ –
Living in Westchester County, New York.
Still playing soccer.
Getting obsessed with First Person Shooters, especially Call of Duty.
Trying to fit in.
Waiting for my growth spurt.

### 2010 - 2014

_January 5 2026_ –
Living in Victoria, British Columbia.
Still playing soccer.
Still playing Call of Duty.
Suddenly popular in school.
Finally growing.
Working for the first time, minimum wage.
Getting into music.
Learning to play guitar, to sing, to write songs, to make beats, to write raps even.

### 2014 - 2019

_January 5 2026_ –
Still living in Victoria.
Still playing soccer.
Studying at the University of Victoria, a combined major in Music & Computer Science.
Listening to more music, exploring.
Now obsessed with computer programming.
Switched to Computer Science.
Keen to work at a tech company.
First girlfriend.
First car.
Internships.
First trips without my family.
First breakup.
First fulltime job.

### 2019 - 2020

_January 5 2026_ –
Living in Seattle, Washington.
Playing soccer.
Working full time for Microsoft.
Hating it.
Transferring.
Contented.
Coding for personal projects.
Listening to old music.
Reading.
Writing.
Meeting Z.

### 2020 - {% vbook_post 2025 | 2025-01-18-my-2025 %}

_January 5 2026_ –
Dating Z.
Getting more serious about writing.
Spending time in Victoria.
Losing my brother.
Returning to Seattle.
Making things work with Z.
Transferring again.
Happy.
Making new friends.
Playing soccer.
Traveling.
Splitting time between Vancouver and Seattle.
Getting married.
Getting to know Vancouver.
Making new friends.
Playing soccer.
Watching Arsenal religiously.

### {% vbook_post 2025 | 2025-01-18-my-2025 %}

_May 18 2026_ –
In 2025 I worried and agonized over decisions of unforeseeable consequence.
I experienced the kind of stress that shortens your lifespan and came to recognize the task of achieving composure.
The task of producing equanimity in myself for my health, my happiness, and that of my loved ones.
Not just calm of appearance, but of internal state.

### {% vbook_post 2026 | 2025-10-28-my-2026 %}

_January 5 2026_ –
Travel to Indonesia.
Learn Indonesian.
Travel to Mexico.
Help Z learn Spanish.
Travel to Toronto?
to PEI?

_May 18 2026_ –
So far 2026 has been the year I became a semiregular at The Wise Lounge.
The year I got a punch card for pitch 'n' putt.
The year I bought a home.
The year I joined a Strata council.
The year my new friendships in Vancouver matured into small communities.

2026 will be the year I attended a World Cup match.
The year I settled down.
The year I went to Indonesia for the second time.
The year a cousin I grew up with got married.
The year I turned thirty.
The year I completed seven years working at Microsoft.
The year I got involved in city politics.

---

### 2028 - 2030

_January 5 2026_ –
Have kids with Z.

---

### 2038

_January 5 2026_ –
Take Z and the kids to Bacalar & Calakmul.
Maybe Holbox too.

---

### 2078

_January 5 2026_ –
I looked up life expectancy last summer.
I might live to eightytwo or so.
It's not the most optimistic projection but it's certainly not a pessimistic one either.
So, 2078 may be my last year.
We'll see.

---

### 2085

_January 5 2026_ –
Several weeks ago I watched a video about the Vancouver Sky Train.
It opened in 1985, just in time for [Expo 86](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Expo_86).
In 2025, the year I watched the video, the Sky Train celebrated its fourtieth anniversary.
When I realized I would likely die before its hundredth anniversary in 2085, it made me very sad.
I had to stop the video so I could cry.
It was almost like grieving my own death, but likely I was just grieving loss in general.
The loss I've already endured and the even greater loss that awaits me.
I am yet young and my future is bright but in it also are great, dark clouds and each will approach in their own time to smother and leave me breathless until I also breath my last.