---
modified_date: 2026-01-14
layout: post
title: "what I'm doing now #19"
permalink: /now-19
tags: journal
redirect_from: ['/now']
---

<!--more-->

### getting back to work

In late September {% vbook_post I thought | 2025-09-23 %} things at work would slow down for me, but then I got immediately pulled into an exciting new project.
I worked on it up until the Friday before my vacation started in mid December.
For the four weeks I was in Mexico – {% vbook_post three in the Yucatan Peninsula | 2025-12-16-yucatan %} and {% vbook_post one in Mexico City | 2026-01-09-mexico-city %} – I didn't do any work and this Monday I returned to work.
In the last few days of my vacation a feeling of foreboding crept up in me.
A creeping fear of failure.

I'd halted work on my project and now I had to get back into it without the momentum I'd built up.
This week I've been getting back into gear.
The work is interesting and challenging.
My role in the project is significant, I have an opportunity to make a big impact.
I'm excited.

### being wary of my time

It's easy to say yes to things.
Yes I'll go to the party.
Yes let's get lunch.
Yes let's invite people over.
Yes let's go on that trip.
Then the day comes and you wonder, Did I even _want_ to do this or was I just taking the easy option?

Balance is hard to find.
How many friends are enough?
Can one have too many?
What about hobbies?

My wife Z gets anxious after socializing.
_Did I do something weird?_
I thought it was a quirk I didn't relate to but then I noticed I get anxious _before_ socializing.
As the scheduled time approaches, I start squirming mentally.
I regret committing to it.
I feel trapped.
But is that really because it was a mistake or is it because I feel anxious?

I suppose the answer is simple, ultimately.
Your body tells you.
It tells you if you should've gotten more exercise, more sleep, more food, more water, it even tells you if you accomplished enough in the day.
The difficult part is listening.
You have to learn how to tune into the frequency of those silent messages and how to decipher them.
Are you really annoyed or are you just overcaffeinated?
Are you really angry or are you just hungry?

Most of most days I pipe podcasts and sports commentary into my brain.
For years now I've listened to the same old comedy podcast to fall asleep.
These days I play sitcom compilations on my phone.
I didn't think much of it but recently I've noticed that it's external chatter I introduce to quiet my internal chatter.
Without it, I find my mind turning over and over on the same old things.
To my surprise I find myself relating to the idea of thoughts that "keep you up at night."
For how long has it been like this?
It's possible I'm just drinking too much coffee and not getting enough exercise.
I haven't figured it out yet.