---
modified_date: 2026-07-04
layout: post
title: "what I'm doing now #28"
permalink: /now-28
tags: journal
redirect_from: ['/now']
---

<!--more-->

### watching the World Cup

Watching matches with friends and strangers has been special.
Vancouver is alive with the World Cup.
Among the most memorable moments was seeing my friend Isaac revel in attending a game in Seattle.
I bought four tickets a few months ago and he was the first I knew I'd invite.
Like me he grew up in love with the game, dreaming of playing for the biggest clubs in the world.
We didn't know each other until I moved to Victoria and we started playing against each in other in youth soccer.
Eventually we both gave up that dream, went to university, and got Software Engineering jobs in Seattle.
We became roommates, then friends, then best friends.
The best moments are shared moments.

### trying to write efficiently

I've not been writing much, though I've had ideas, and things to say.
So I've been thinking – how can I {% vbook_post write succinct pieces quickly | 2026-07-03-write %}?
I can avoid preludes, summaries, detours, but what if I also leave out the little connecting bits so I can lay out without interruption the main ideas?
Poetry and prose are two things but they exist on some same spectrum.
Can I nudge my prose towards poetry to make it more dense in expression?
That way I can produce more from less volume.
The piece {% vbook_post <em>what is ego? #2</em> | 2026-07-03-ego %} is such an attempt.

### questioning my job

For a few weeks I felt dissatisfied with my work and demotivated to do it.
For the first time in years, I updated my resume.
In the last week or so, I've found again my footing.
There are many great things about my job and for now I remain content.

### grieving a friend's passing

On Sunday morning Z and I got the awful news that our mutual friend through whom we'd met had passed away.
It was totally unexpected.
I went to high school with him and we had since remained friends.
He and Z met in university and were close friends for a while.
It hasn't been easy on us.