---
modified_date: 2026-04-28
layout: post
title: "how to use books #2"
permalink: /use-books-2
tags: books writing reading
---

<!--more-->
Reading books feels like a good use of time.
Any day feels more substantial if I've spent time with an interesting book in my hands, working the stream of symbols through my brain.
Finishing a chapter gives me a sturdy feeling of satisfaction.

I love engaging and puzzling over a work.
But I get restless if before long I don't produce something as well.
I suppose this dual appetite is why I love programming.
I mentally ingest abstract symbols, make sense of them, and effect some new meaning in response.
A new feature, an improvement, a fix.
My satisfaction with a day's work seems to depend on producing something or at least progressing in producing something.

From the books I read I want also to produce something.
I've tried several ways of doing so.
{% vbook_post Reviews | 2025-03-08-dominant-animal %} are an obvious one but I find that speaking about an entire book makes it difficult for me to write how I like to write.
I like to write in wholes, even if small.
One coherent point is enough, even if it can be countered by another.
(In fact, I like the idea of {% vbook_post countering myself | 2023-02-25-come.up.with.ideas %} over time, writing in dialectic and thus refining my ideas.)

Some of my least favorite pieces on this site are ones dedicated to entire books.
But then, one of my favorites – {% vbook_post _how normal people think_ | 2024-12-21-how-normal-people-think %} – uses Sally Rooney's _Normal People_ as its foundation.
For years now I've been experimenting with ways of transforming reading into writing.
Often while reading I encounter something I want to talk about but I don't have time or patience or the idea I need to transform it into original writing.

Recently, I've been typing out excerpts from books and letting them be the principal thing in a piece.
I put myself in the role of curator and commentator while I wait for the right idea to come so I can produce an original piece that relates to what I've read.
And in the meantime, I'll collect bits, tag them, give them a name, and offer any sentences of my own that I can muster.