---
layout: post
title: "what I'm doing now #14"
permalink: /now-14
tags: journal
---

<!--more-->

### flying back to Vancouver

We spent seven days {% vbook_post in Ireland | 2025-08-07-ireland-trip %}, then eleven {% vbook_post in England | 2025-08-07-england-trip %}.
In Ireland we visited Dublin and Galway but spent the best time in the countryside and the villages throughout it.
We saw relics from old civilizations and stunning green landscapes of hill and seaside.
In the villages we caught glimpses of local life and integrated with it for brief stretches thanks to the warmth of Irish hospitality.
In England we spent all our time in cities – Bristol, Bath, and London.
We reunited with friends and enjoyed the luxuries of urban life – food, drink, shops, lounges, museums, galleries, shows, and sporting events.

### contemplating moving to London

Before Z and I met, Z intended to move away from the West Coast.
Her plan was to finish the last couple years of her undergrad, spend a few months in Indonesia with her maternal side of the family, then move to Toronto.
Instead, she spent the tail end of her undergrad visiting me in Seattle, then moved to the Vancouver area.
It was supposed to be a temporary situation that allowed us to go back and forth while we waited for Zyannya to get her permanent residence in the US.

Vancouver and Seattle are less than three hours apart by car and so we
Three years have passed.

We've spent the three years since then going back and forth between Seattle and Vancouver.

We got married in the summer of 2023 and have been waiting for her American permanent residency since then.
We are almost thirty and plan to start a family soon.
Before that, Z wants to live somewhere else.