---
layout: post
title: "TODO"
permalink: /TODO
tags: journal writing
---

I find myself suddenly at the end of a stage in my development as an amateur writer.
<!--more-->
The milestone I've reached is not marked by the end of a learning module or my passing of an exam.
It's marked by my internal sense that my greatest weakness as a writer has changed.

Five and a half years ago my biggest challenge was finishing.
I had things to write about but I rarely made it out of the drafting stage.
To this day, I regret not finishing a piece called _What is Computer Science?_ that I began writing in 2019, the year I graduated with a Bachelor's degree in Computer Science.
I intended to post it on Medium, but never did.
I wrote in bursts and revised and tried cobbling the various parts together into a whole until it became unwieldy.

I changed my strategy.
To make the prospect of posting online less daunting, I chose a topic that was easy to write about: the summer student program I had recently participated in.
I didn't have to worry about building a compelling argument or verifying the accuracy of my claims because the task was simply to share my experience and to reflect on it.
It still took effort, but it worked.
In the next two months, I completed two more pieces – one about music released in 2019 and the other about leaving books unfinished.

Today, I still rely on the tactic of online publishing to motivate myself to finish.
I have eight pieces [on Medium](https://okjuan.medium.com/), two [on Substack](https://okjuan.substack.com/), and dozens on [this site](https://okjuan.me/vbook/), but I still get satisfaction from each new piece I put out into the world.
On the web, it _exists_.
I can easily text a link to friends and family, or get my wife Z to pull it up on her phone.