---
layout: post
title: "how to follow protocol"
permalink: /protocol
tags: journal
---

No doubt training early in life is essential to raise a law-abiding citizen.
<!--more-->
But it's the mistakes he makes out on the battleground that sharpens his skills so that he may cut through even the gnarliest thickets of red tape.
(To be more precise, he knows to fill out the right form so that a certified red tape cutter can use their standardized pair of scissors to remove the applicable obstacle with standard snips.)

Consider the case of a young man who was finally disabused of his naivety and learned the supreme importance of Protocol while attempting to return home to his family.
It was a rude awakening, sure, but he couldn't blame the purveyors of his training for failing to foretell what requirements might be for a citizen returning to his country during a global pandemic.
That would've been too farfetched a hypothetical to entertain and, more importantly, one not covered in the standard training handbook.
In fact, if he has anyone to blame, it is himself.

Why didn't he consult the latest guidance before attempting to cross an international border?
I know what you're going to say, he had already entered twice since the beginning of the pandemic, but doesn't he keep up with the news?
His country and many others had changed their rules!
And no, it doesn't matter that it was an emergency.
I know, I know, his brother had died suddenly and he was desperate to reunite with his family, but that's hardly relevant.
The relevant fact is that Protocol must be followed.
It doesn't matter if he was awake most of the night struggling to sleep and then scrambling in the morning to rent a car.
He should've checked Protocol.
You're telling me that in the two hours he spent driving up towards the border he couldn't have taken a five minute break from sobbing to think about Protocol?
He found somehow the energy to take a phone call from his brother's fiance and confront the horror that the news hadn't yet reached him, but he couldn't muster the energy to consider Protocol?

Fortunately we had several officials of different stripes and departments on site to explain Protocol, to remind him of its supreme importance, and to apply it indiscriminately.
Because Protocol must be applied so.
Protocol is Not Protocol if applied judisciously.
Judgment has been made ahead of time and encoded into the Protocol so that the only thing left to do is apply it.
Simplicity and fairness.
Elsewhere we have functionaries in offices equipped with pencils and they have done the reasoning ahead of timeso that no consideration must be given to circumstances or nuance and all is left is for these functionaries here equipped with weapons to enforce Protocol.

We are pleased with how the staff handled the situation.
The officer at the booth must've been surprised to encounter such an emotionally uncomposed traveler, but the officer handled it professionally.
Looking at her face, you'd have no idea she was speaking to someone who was having the worst twentyfour hours of his life.
Instead of responding to what he was saying she asked the first question: Do you have a negative Covid test?
He said no so she sent him to secondary inspection where a masked health official came to the window of his car to explain that the New Protocol required travelers to provide proof of a negative Covid test taken in the 72 hours preceding their entry into the country.
No, it did not matter that he had no symptoms and had only left the country a few days ago, a negative test was still required prior to re-entering.
No, he could not take a test at that tent over there, that was for the _second_ Covid test that all travelers were required to take upon entering.
Besides, the result wouldn't be ready immediately because the samples had to be sent for processing to the lab at the end of the day.
No, an antigen test from a pharmacy was not sufficient.
Protocol dictated PCR tests because they were more reliable.

Of course, he would not be denied entry into his own country!
But if he didn't have a negative test then he'd have to quarantine at a designated hotel immediately and for two weeks.
Our officials made Protocol very clear and yet he continued to argue on his behalf.
He did not want to comply.
He asked to speak to the health official's supervisor.
This is when our officials faced the greatest challenge and surpassed with flying colors.
Our health official, rather shrewdly, asked again to see his passport as if he had to process it again and then kept it securely in our possession.
Then he got his supervisor on speaker phone.
What if I didn't go to the hotel to quarantine and went to my family instead?
The health official's supervisor was on the phone and her disembodied voice warned, Then you will have disobeyed anofficial order.
Or something like that.
The exact wording didn't matter too much as long as she made it sound serious and hinted at legal consequences.
