---
layout: post
title: my stream of consciousness
permalink: /stream
tags: journal
---

<!--more-->

_December 16 2025_ –
Recently I've slept badly and I think it's because I haven't been exercising enough.
I should exercise everyday.
Bizarrely, lack of exercise seems also to correlate with whether I will drink beer or overeat in the evening.
I suppose exercise is not unlike a substance.

_December 16 2025_ –
I notice I worry and obsess over problems in my life.
Soon after I solve one I start mulling over another.
I agonize over the same dilemma over and again.
I want to take control of these kinds of thoughts.
To do so I think I need to practice a certain kind of mindfulness, be a sort of parent to myself, a guardian and a mentor.
I need to intervene and ask myself a few basic questions.
Can you do anything about it?
If so, are you going to do it now?
If not, are you going to decide now?
Have you decided?
Is there any use to thinking about it then?
Like a little kid the impulse to worry will return over and again to ask the same questions no matter how many times it has been answered.
As a parent to myself my job is to receive the child over and again and to guide him back out to play.

Spending time with my mom and observing her behavior I suddenly realized I emulate her.
The excessive questions and verifications, we're both hyperactive checkers.
It puts my compulsive worrying in perspective.
Suddenly it seems less like an intrinsic attribute of mine and more like a learned behavior.
Did I choose this way of being or did I learn it through example?
It intensifies the underlying question, What way of being _will_ I choose?

_December 16 2025_ –
Here I am again in an island of time.
Travel serves up plenty of these opportunities.
Periods on the train, on the plane, in waiting lounges.
Time to kill, some but not too much of it.

_December 16 2025_ –
A few months ago I transformed a uniform, simple piece of writing into an interface and from it flourished more writing.
The pedestrian intuition of design is that it is something made for someone else to use.
In that scheme, the designer is like a deity that creates and then recedes into the cosmos, bequeathing the blessing and curse of their creation to those who make use of it.
If the design succeeds it does so thanks to the designer's prescience and wisdom, and it fails for their ignorance and vanity.
From then on any reverence or disdain users feel for the designer may as well be aimed at the empty skies above.

But design in real life is the founding of a living relationship.
At the least, a relationship between object and user, but there is also the relationship between the object's keepers and its users.
Designers may indeed vanish permanently from the scene but if their creation endures it often does so thanks to the work of those who maintain it.
Some users are so devoted to the relationship that they themselves take up the mantle of maintenance and enjoy the expedience and privilege of serving their own interests.

This is the simplest form of the positive feedback loop necessary for sustaining the life of the relationship in a healthy way.
Grateful users express their satisfaction and dissatisfaction both to maintainers and developers, which motivates them to continue improving things to provide greater effectivenss for the users and the cycle continues.
Like any other the relationship subsists on trust and mutual esteem repeatedly earned and given.

Much has been said about good design, good markerting, good customer service, but I am writing now to discuss something else: developer as user, designer as customer, maintainer as consumer.
I don't mean "dogfooding" or drinking one's own champagne.
I am referring directly to the aspect of making that _is_ using.
Building, changing, and fixing an interface is itself a user experience and it's not because you are a user of an interface made by a different designer.

There are two sides to every interface.
Just as a user is limited in what they can do by the interface they are given, so is an interface builder limited in what experience they can provide to the user by the interface they build.
Just as an interface empowers or hamstrings a user, so does it the maker.

Consider a book.
The writer is chief designer of a team also employing editors, type designers, cover artists, printers, and so on.
The reader is the user.
The writer may preoccupy themselves with any number of choices regarding the content of their book without ever exploring ideas and questions regarding the _form_ of their book.
In fact there are layers and layers of form of which the writer likely only considers a few if any.
A writer may vacillate on whether to write in first person or third, in past tense or present, in English or French, without ever considering whether they should use language at all.

Allow me to ask some questions rarely if ever posed.
Should it be a book at all?
Should it be a physical object at all?
Should it be only _one_ object?
What if instead of a book it were a series of booklets you received in the mail over a few weeks?
(You may point out, that's already been done. Charles Dickens for example serialized his novels in magazines. And this is my point exactly. Art instantiates itself most easily into existing formats, but is it an artistic choice or a practical one? What if you searched for formats that best captured your idea and create it if it doesn't exist? But this is where it gets tricky. Our ideas often _depend_ on forms. New and different forms make possible new and different ideas. The thing to do, then, is to experiment iteratively. Try something, evaluate it, repeat. The other thing to do is to roam big open fields in your mind, wander and wander with no tether. To gain access to this nonphysical plane of possibility, make time for the rote physical tasks like showering, walking, folding clothes and harvest from them. (I don't think it's a coincidence that David Lynch considered meditation _the_ generative element of his artistic practice.) (This aside is a great example of what I'm talking about. Conventional writing favors linear progressive thought. What then should we make of the spontaneous branching nature of real thought? Supress it? Why haven't we instead reshaped the written form to give precedence to this resource and foster its development to see what it may become? _Infinite Jest_ offers a crude version of this in the shape of footnotes but flipping back and forth is rather awkward.))
Should it be a private experience?
Should it be the same experience for everybody?
What if instead of a book it were a series of assorted letters you and your friends received of which none were the same?
What if instead of a book it were a phone call you scheduled with an actor playing a character who recounted stories to you and improvised in response to what you said?

Were a writer to pick a different format the work of art they produced would inevitable

In response to its format the work of art changes.
Form is a container, a mold, the sieve through which whatever raw stuff art is made of must pass to come into being.
To use a different format is not to create a different version but to create a different thing altogether.